content/articles/2025-05-06-setting-up-a-mac/2025-05-06-setting-up-a-mac.md, before:

---
tags: Mac
date: 2025-05-06
title: Setting up a Mac
image: mac.jpg
---

Every couple of years you get the opportunity to setup a new Mac. It's typically a enjoyable process, yet it eats up some time. In order top make it a _structured_ enjoyable process, here is my note to future-me of what I have to install, and in what order.

[TOC]

**Note:** The dev stuff is not listed here as there is an own [article about installing the Dev environment](development-environment-on-mac).

## First things first...

- Mail first, as it takes loooong to download all the emails
  - Work email
  - Private Email

## Basic

- 1Password, 1st because everything needs passwords...
- DropBox, early to give it time to sync.
- AlDente for Battery management from [their Website](https://apphousekitchen.com/aldente-overview/pricing/)
- iTerm - because we need it for the next steps. And make sure that `zsh` is the shell used.
- ssh keys from 1Password
- brew 
- AnythingLLM
- ChatGPT from the [OPenAI Website](https://openai.com/chatgpt/download/)
- Claude from the [Anthropic website](https://claude.ai/download)

- Time thingy - don't remember the name...

## For work

- OwnCloud first, so it has time to sync. From the [OwnCloud Website](https://owncloud.com/desktop-app/).
- Webex
- VPN _Cisco AnyConnect_
- MS Office 365, from AppStore, then login
- MS Teams (that's not part of Office 365) from the [Microsoft Teams Website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/download-app)
- Setup printers

## Settings to adjust

- In _System Settings_
  - Trackpad
  - Touch ID
  - Screen Saver
  - Lock Screen
  - Keyboard > Keyborad Shortcuts. 
- Desktop & Dock in _System Settings_, _Hot Corners_ remove all Icons from Dock
- Finder _Settings_ and _View Options_

- Widgets on Desktop 
- Wallet & Apple Pay

Commit message:

About page and setting up my mac now includes Window Manager

content/articles/2025-05-06-setting-up-a-mac/2025-05-06-setting-up-a-mac.md, after:

---
tags: Mac
date: 2025-05-06
title: Setting up a Mac
image: mac.jpg
---

Every couple of years you get the opportunity to setup a new Mac. It's typically a enjoyable process, yet it eats up some time. In order top make it a _structured_ enjoyable process, here is my note to future-me of what I have to install, and in what order.

[TOC]

**Note:** The dev stuff is not listed here as there is an own [article about installing the Dev environment](development-environment-on-mac).

## First things first...

- Mail first, as it takes loooong to download all the emails
  - Work email
  - Private Email

## Basic

- 1Password, 1st because everything needs passwords. Installed from AppStore.
- DropBox, early to give it time to sync.
- Swish, the window manager I am used to. Installed from [their website](https://highlyopinionated.co/swish/).
- AlDente for Battery management from [their Website](https://apphousekitchen.com/aldente-overview/pricing/)
- iTerm - because we need it for the next steps. And make sure that `zsh` is the shell used.
- ssh keys from 1Password
- brew 
- AnythingLLM
- ChatGPT from the [OPenAI Website](https://openai.com/chatgpt/download/)
- Claude from the [Anthropic website](https://claude.ai/download)

- Time thingy - don't remember the name...

## For work

- OwnCloud first, so it has time to sync. From the [OwnCloud Website](https://owncloud.com/desktop-app/).
- Webex
- VPN _Cisco AnyConnect_
- MS Office 365, from AppStore, then login
- MS Teams (that's not part of Office 365) from the [Microsoft Teams Website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/download-app)
- Setup printers

## Settings to adjust

- In _System Settings_
  - Trackpad
  - Touch ID
  - Screen Saver
  - Lock Screen
  - Keyboard > Keyborad Shortcuts. 
- Desktop & Dock in _System Settings_, _Hot Corners_ remove all Icons from Dock
- Finder _Settings_ and _View Options_

- Widgets on Desktop 
- Wallet & Apple Pay
